we're studying what they call the spike
wave what that is is basically a large
kind of an axi-symmetric wave or kind of
rotationally symmetric wave that is in
the middle of the tank we do to grade
this as we send lots of waves of
different frequencies towards the center
of the tank and they travel at different
speeds and basically recently as always
first and then the longer waves second
and then they can evolve constructively
in the tank and make this big spike we
were looking at recreating a freak wave
quite a famous one called the drop
Nureyev and what a freak wave is is
basically an unexpectedly large wave
that occurs in a population smaller
waves this was a wave observed in the
North Sea on the first January night 95
and it was one of the first kind of
confirmed observations of one of these
freak waves so because of that in
studied quite a lot and basically one
kind of study about that we've tried to
look into the kind of conditions that
could have created that wave and the
findings of that study was that they
couldn't carry out a numerical
computations and successfully reproduce
this wave without creating it by the
crossing of two wave groups so when they
heard a single kind of wave train that
moved in one direction and the wave
would break and that that breaking would
limit the way of life so what we did was
we created two different way of groups
and vary the angle between those two
wave groups and then what we found was
that we could only reproduce the freak
wave when we had an angle of around
about 135 degrees between those two wave
groups and the breaking process when the
angle agility wave groups was large
changed significantly and that's one of
the reasons we're actually doing the
spike test today and so we just look at
those
and in the first-ever mystery of here we
have a kind of a following case so
basically all the way of energy is
traveling in one direction and this is
kind of a similar to the example you
might see at the beach what you actually
observe is that the waves going to break
in a plunging type case which is what
you see the beach typically and that
actually serves to limit the height of
the waves and then if we look at this
next image of the waves here where we
basically changed the angle between the
crossing wave groups to 135 degrees you
end up seeing this kind of spouting type
wave breaking and what we actually found
is that this type of wave Britain
doesn't limit the wave height in fact
actually enhances the way fight and this
is probably the cause of the actual
traveler wave diversity in terms of I
think they can make them here hit the
roof I think we try not to do that
because the other city might damage
through and at the moment we're kind of
limiting the height of something we can
measure and but it can be much bigger
[Music]
you